In 2023, Amazon’s total revenue grew 12% year-over-year (“YoY”) from $514B to $575B. By segment, North
America revenue increased 12% YoY from $316B to $353B, International revenue grew 11% YoY from
$118B to $131B, and AWS revenue increased 13% YoY from $80B to $91B.

Further, Amazon’s operating income and Free Cash Flow (“FCF”) dramatically improved. Operating
income in 2023 improved 201% YoY from $12.2B (an operating margin of 2.4%) to $36.9B (an operating
margin of 6.4%). Trailing Twelve Month FCF adjusted for equipment finance leases improved from -$12.8B
in 2022 to $35.5B (up $48.3B).

Being sharp on price is always important, but particularly in an uncertain economy, where customers are
careful about how much they’re spending. As a result, in Q4 2023, we kicked off the holiday season with Prime
Big Deal Days, an exclusive event for Prime members to provide an early start on holiday shopping. This
was followed by our extended Black Friday and Cyber Monday holiday shopping event, open to all customers,
that became our largest revenue event ever. For all of 2023, customers saved nearly $24B across millions of
deals and coupons, almost 70% more than the prior year.

expand selection and features, and move toward profitability (in Q4 2023, Mexico became our latest
international Stores locale to turn profitable). We have high conviction that these new geographies will
continue to grow and be profitable in the long run.

Shifting to AWS, we started 2023 seeing substantial cost optimization, with most companies trying to save
money in an uncertain economy. Much of this optimization was catalyzed by AWS helping customers use the
cloud more efficiently and leverage more powerful, price-performant AWS capabilities like Graviton chips
(our generalized CPU chips that provide ~40% better price-performance than other leading x86 processors),
S3 Intelligent Tiering (a storage class that uses AI to detect objects accessed less frequently and store them
in less expensive storage layers), and Savings Plans (which give customers lower prices in exchange for longer
commitments). This work diminished short-term revenue, but was best for customers, much appreciated,
and should bode well for customers and AWS longer-term. By the end of 2023, we saw cost optimization
attenuating, new deals accelerating, customers renewing at larger commitments over longer time periods, and
migrations growing again.

We have increasing conviction that Prime Video can be a large and profitable business on its own. This
confidence is buoyed by the continued development of compelling, exclusive content (e.g. Thursday Night
Football, Lord of the Rings, Reacher, The Boys, Citadel, Road House, etc.), Prime Video customers’engagement
with this content, growth in our marketplace programs (through our third-party Channels program, as
well as the broad selection of shows and movies customers rent or buy), and the addition of advertising in
Prime Video.

In October, we hit a major milestone in our journey to commercialize Project Kuiper when we launched two
end-to-end prototype satellites into space, and successfully validated all key systems and sub-systems—
rare in an initial launch like this. Kuiper is our low Earth orbit satellite initiative that aims to provide
broadband connectivity to the 400-500 million households who don’t have it today (as well as governments
and enterprises seeking better connectivity and performance in more remote areas), and is a very large revenue
opportunity for Amazon. We’re on track to launch our first production satellites in 2024. We’ve still got a
long way to go, but are encouraged by our progress.

Today, we continue to operate in times of unprecedented change that come with unusual opportunities for
growth across the areas in which we operate. For instance, while we have a nearly $500B consumer business,
about 80% of the worldwide retail market segment still resides in physical stores. Similarly, with a cloud
computing business at nearly a $100B revenue run rate, more than 85% of the global IT spend is still

Amazon.com passed many milestones in 1997: by year-end, we had served more than 1.5 million customers,
yielding 838% revenue growth to $147.8 million, and extended our market leadership despite aggressive
competitive entry.

We believe that a fundamental measure of our success will be the shareholder value we create over the long
term. This value will be a direct result of our ability to extend and solidify our current market leadership position.
The stronger our market leadership, the more powerful our economic model. Market leadership can translate
directly to higher revenue, higher profitability, greater capital velocity, and correspondingly stronger returns on
invested capital.

Our decisions have consistently reflected this focus. We first measure ourselves in terms of the metrics most
indicative of our market leadership: customer and revenue growth, the degree to which our customers continue to
purchase from us on a repeat basis, and the strength of our brand. We have invested and will continue to invest
aggressively to expand and leverage our customer base, brand, and infrastructure as we move to establish an
enduring franchise.

• We will continue to make investment decisions in light of long-term market leadership considerations
rather than short-term profitability considerations or short-term Wall Street reactions.

• When forced to choose between optimizing the appearance of our GAAP accounting and maximizing
the present value of future cash flows, we’ll take the cash flows.

• We will balance our focus on growth with emphasis on long-term profitability and capital management.
At this stage, we choose to prioritize growth because we believe that scale is central to achieving the
potential of our business model.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control 
over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its 
audit report. ☒

Item 5.
Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock, Related Shareholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of 
Equity Securities

As we strive to be Earth’s best employer, we focus on investment and innovation, inclusion and diversity, safety, and 
engagement to hire and develop the best talent. We rely on numerous and evolving initiatives to implement these objectives and 
invent mechanisms for talent development, including competitive pay and benefits, flexible work arrangements, and skills 
training and educational programs such as Amazon Career Choice (education funding for eligible employees) and the Amazon 
Technical Academy (software development engineer training). Over 175,000 Amazon employees around the world have 
participated in Career Choice. We also continue to inspect and refine the mechanisms we use to hire, develop, evaluate, and 
retain our employees to promote equity for all candidates and employees. In addition, safety is integral to everything we do at 
Amazon and we continue to invest in safety improvements such as capital improvements, new safety technology, vehicle safety 
controls, and engineering ergonomic solutions. Our safety team is dedicated to using the science of safety to solve complex 
problems and establish new industry best practices. We also provide mentorship and support resources to our employees, and 
have deployed numerous programs that advance employee engagement, communication, and feedback.

Please carefully consider the following discussion of significant factors, events, and uncertainties that make an 
investment in our securities risky. The events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could, in circumstances we may 
or may not be able to accurately predict, recognize, or control, have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, 
reputation, prospects, financial condition, operating results (including components of our financial results), cash flows, 
liquidity, and stock price. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face; our operations could also be affected by 
factors, events, or uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant 
risks to our operations. In addition to the factors discussed in Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and in the risk factors below, global economic and geopolitical conditions and 
additional or unforeseen circumstances, developments, or events may give rise to or amplify many of the risks discussed below. 
Many of the risks discussed below also impact our customers, including third-party sellers, which could indirectly have a 
material adverse effect on us.

Competition continues to intensify, including with the development of new business models and the entry of new and 
well-funded competitors, and as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances and established companies in 
other market segments expand to become competitive with our business. In addition, new and enhanced technologies, including 
search, web and infrastructure computing services, practical applications of artificial intelligence and machine learning, digital 
content, and electronic devices continue to increase our competition. The internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison 
shopping, which enhances the ability of new, smaller, or lesser known businesses to compete against us. As a result of 
competition, our product and service offerings may not be successful, we may fail to gain or may lose business, and we may be 
required to increase our spending or lower prices, any of which could materially reduce our sales and profits.

We may have limited or no experience in our newer market segments, and our customers may not adopt our product or 
service offerings. These offerings, which can present new and difficult technology challenges, may subject us to claims if 
customers of these offerings experience, or are otherwise impacted by, service disruptions, delays, setbacks, or failures or 
quality issues. In addition, profitability or other intended benefits, if any, in our newer activities may not meet our expectations, 
and we may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup our investments in them, which investments are often 
significant. Failure to realize the benefits of amounts we invest in new technologies, products, or services could result in the

Our international activities are significant to our revenues and profits, and we plan to further expand internationally. In 
certain international market segments, we have relatively little operating experience and may not benefit from any first-tomarket advantages or otherwise succeed. It is costly to establish, develop, and maintain international operations and stores, and 
promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may not become profitable on a sustained basis.

•
shorter payable and longer receivable cycles and the resultant negative impact on cash flow;

In addition, because China-based sellers account for significant portions of our third-party seller services and advertising 
revenues, and China-based suppliers provide significant portions of our components and finished goods, regulatory and trade 
restrictions, data protection and cybersecurity laws, economic factors, geopolitical events, security issues, or other factors 
negatively impacting China-based sellers and suppliers could adversely affect our operating results.

Demand for our products and services can fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including as a result of seasonality, 
promotions, product launches, or unforeseeable events, such as in response to global economic conditions such as recessionary 
fears or rising inflation, natural or human-caused disasters (including public health crises) or extreme weather (including as a 
result of climate change), or geopolitical events. For example, we expect a disproportionate amount of our retail sales to occur 
during our fourth quarter. Our failure to stock or restock popular products in sufficient amounts such that we fail to meet 
customer demand could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. When we overstock products, we may be 
required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs and incur commitment costs, which could materially reduce 
profitability. We regularly experience increases in our net shipping cost due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and 
additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. If too many customers access our 
websites within a short period of time due to increased demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites 
unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we offer or sell and the 
attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment network and 
customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies and customer service cosourcers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand. Risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A relating to fulfillment network 
optimization and inventory are magnified during periods of high demand.

As a result of holiday sales, as of December 31 of each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities 
balances typically reach their highest level (other than as a result of cash flows provided by or used in investing and financing 
activities) because consumers primarily use credit cards in our stores and the related receivables settle quickly. Typically, there 
is also a corresponding increase in accounts payable as of December 31 due to inventory purchases and third-party seller sales. 
Our accounts payable balance generally declines during the first three months of the year as vendors and sellers are paid, 
resulting in a corresponding decline in our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances.

We are not always able to accurately forecast our growth rate. We base our expense levels and investment plans on sales 
estimates. A significant portion of our expenses and investments is fixed, and we are not always able to adjust our spending 
quickly enough if our sales are less than expected.

Our revenue growth may not be sustainable, and our percentage growth rates may decrease. Our revenue and operating 
profit growth depends on the continued growth of demand for the products and services offered by us or our sellers, and our 
business is affected by, among other things, general economic, business, and geopolitical conditions worldwide. A softening of 
demand, whether caused by changes in customer preferences or a weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in 
decreased revenue or growth.

•
variability in revenue and income from entering into, amending, or terminating such agreements or relationships; and

•
additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquired or in which we invested;

•
the difficulty of incorporating acquired operations, technology, and rights into our offerings, and unanticipated 
expenses related to such integration;

•
the difficulty of integrating a new company’s accounting, financial reporting, management, information and data 
security, human resource, and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if 
such integration is delayed or not successfully implemented;

•
for investments in which an investee’s financial performance is incorporated into our financial results, either in full or 
in part, or investments for which we are required to file financial statements or provide financial information, the 
dependence on the investee’s accounting, financial reporting, and similar systems, controls, and processes;

•
potential unknown liabilities associated with a company we acquire or in which we invest; and

As a result of future acquisitions or mergers, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur 
debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could reduce our profitability and 
harm our business or only be available on unfavorable terms, if at all. In addition, valuations supporting our acquisitions and 
strategic investments could change rapidly. We could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments or otherthan-temporary declines in fair value which could adversely impact our financial results.

upon delivery. For existing and future payment options we offer to our customers, we currently are subject to, and may become 
subject to additional, regulations and compliance requirements (including obligations to implement enhanced authentication 
processes that could result in significant costs and reduce the ease of use of our payments products), as well as fraud. For 
certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time 
and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. We rely on third parties to provide certain Amazon-branded payment 
methods and payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, and 
promotional financing. In each case, it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide 
these services to us. We also offer co-branded credit card programs, which could adversely affect our operating results if 
renewed on less favorable terms or terminated. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, including data 
security rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted 
to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. Failure to comply with these rules or requirements, as well as any breach, 
compromise, or failure to otherwise detect or prevent fraudulent activity involving our data security systems, could result in our 
being liable for card issuing banks’ costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees, and loss of our ability to accept credit and 
debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our 
business and operating results could be adversely affected.

•
changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public;

As an innovative company offering a wide range of consumer and business products and services around the world, we 
are regularly subject to actual and threatened claims, litigation, reviews, investigations, and other proceedings, including 
proceedings by governments and regulatory authorities, involving a wide range of issues, including patent and other intellectual 
property matters, taxes, labor and employment (including the characterization of delivery drivers), competition and antitrust, 
privacy, data use, data protection, data security, data localization, network security, consumer protection, commercial disputes, 
goods and services offered by us and by third parties (including artificial intelligence technologies and services), and other 
matters. The number and scale of these proceedings have increased over time as our businesses have expanded in scope and 
geographic reach, as our products, services, and operations have become more complex and available to, and used by, more 
people, and as governments and regulatory authorities seek to regulate us on a pre-emptive basis. For example, we are litigating 
a number of matters alleging price fixing, monopolization, and consumer protection claims, including those brought by state 
attorneys general and the Federal Trade Commission. Any of these types of proceedings can have an adverse effect on us 
because of legal costs, disruption of our operations, diversion of management resources, negative publicity, and other factors. 
The outcomes of these matters are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties. Determining legal reserves 
or possible losses from such matters involves judgment and may not reflect the full range of uncertainties and unpredictable 
outcomes. Until the final resolution of such matters, we may be exposed to losses in excess of the amount recorded, and such 
amounts could be material. Should any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a 
material effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, it is possible 
that a resolution of one or more such proceedings, including as a result of a settlement, could involve licenses, sanctions, 
consent decrees, or orders requiring us to make substantial future payments, preventing us from offering certain products or 
services, requiring us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business, requiring development of 
non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies, damaging our reputation, or otherwise having a material effect on 
our operations.

Some of the products we sell or manufacture expose us to product liability or food safety claims relating to personal 
injury or illness, death, or environmental or property damage, and can require product recalls or other actions. Third parties who 
sell products using our services and stores also expose us to product liability claims. Additionally, under our A-to-z Guarantee, 
we may reimburse customers for certain product liability claims up to certain limits in these situations, and as our third-party 
seller sales grow, the cost of this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results. Although we maintain 
liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will 
continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Although we impose contractual terms on sellers that 
are intended to prohibit sales of certain type of products, we may not be able to detect, enforce, or collect sufficient damages for

We Face Additional Tax Liabilities and Collection Obligations

We are subject to a variety of taxes and tax collection obligations in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign 
jurisdictions. We may recognize additional tax expense and be subject to additional tax liabilities, including other liabilities for 
tax collection obligations due to changes in laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to 
tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. 
Such changes could come about as a result of economic, political, and other conditions. An increasing number of jurisdictions 
are considering or have adopted laws or administrative practices that impose new tax measures, including revenue-based taxes, 
targeting online commerce and the remote selling of goods and services. These include new obligations to withhold or collect 
sales, consumption, value added, or other taxes on online marketplaces and remote sellers, or other requirements that may result 
in liability for third party obligations. For example, non-U.S. jurisdictions have proposed or enacted taxes on online advertising 
and marketplace service revenues. Proliferation of these or similar unilateral tax measures may continue unless broader 
international tax reform is implemented. In addition, the European Union and other countries (including those in which we 
operate) have enacted or have committed to enact global minimum taxes, which may increase our tax expense in future years.

Our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by additional taxes imposed on us prospectively or 
retroactively or additional taxes or penalties resulting from the failure to comply with any collection obligations or failure to 
provide information about our customers, suppliers, and other third parties for tax reporting purposes to various government 
agencies. In some cases we also may not have sufficient notice to enable us to build systems and adopt processes to properly 
comply with new reporting or collection obligations by the effective date.

Our tax expense and liabilities are also affected by other factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions, 
investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, 
losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related tax benefits, the applicability of special or 
extraterritorial tax regimes, changes in foreign exchange rates, changes in our stock price, changes to our forecasts of income 
and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, and changes in our tax assets and liabilities and their valuation. In the 
ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is 
uncertain. Significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our tax expense, assets, and liabilities.

Our contracts with U.S., as well as state, local, and foreign, government entities are subject to various procurement 
regulations and other requirements relating to their formation, administration, and performance. We are subject to audits and 
investigations relating to our government contracts, and any violations could result in various civil and criminal penalties and 
administrative sanctions, including termination of contract, refunding or suspending of payments, forfeiture of profits, payment 
of fines, and suspension or debarment from future government business. In addition, some of these contracts are subject to 
periodic funding approval and/or provide for termination by the government at any time, without cause.

Item 5.
Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock, Related Shareholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity 
Securities

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Our primary source of revenue is the sale of a wide range of products and services to customers. The products offered 
through our stores include merchandise and content we have purchased for resale and products offered by third-party sellers, 
and we also manufacture and sell electronic devices and produce media content. Generally, we recognize gross revenue from 
items we sell from our inventory as product sales and recognize our net share of revenue of items sold by third-party sellers as 
service sales. We seek to increase unit sales across our stores, through increased product selection, across numerous product 
categories. We also offer other services such as compute, storage, and database offerings, fulfillment, advertising, publishing, 
and digital content subscriptions.

Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flows. Free cash flows are driven primarily by 
increasing operating income and efficiently managing accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable, and cash capital 
expenditures, including our decision to purchase or lease property and equipment. Increases in operating income primarily 
result from increases in sales of products and services and efficiently managing our operating costs, partially offset by 
investments we make in longer-term strategic initiatives, including capital expenditures focused on improving the customer 
experience. To increase sales of products and services, we focus on improving all aspects of the customer experience, including 
lowering prices, improving availability, offering faster delivery and performance times, increasing selection, producing original 
content, increasing product categories and service offerings, expanding product information, improving ease of use, improving 
reliability, and earning customer trust. See “Results of Operations — Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for additional 
information on our non-GAAP free cash flows financial measures.

We seek to efficiently manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility to issue shares for strategic purposes, 
such as financings, acquisitions, and aligning employee compensation with shareholders’ interests. We utilize restricted stock 
units as our primary vehicle for equity compensation because we believe this compensation model aligns the long-term interests 
of our shareholders and employees. In measuring shareholder dilution, we include all vested and unvested stock awards 
outstanding, without regard to estimated forfeitures. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding stock awards were 10.6 billion 
and 10.8 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2023.

Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. Dollar and changes in foreign exchange rates significantly affect our 
reported results and consolidated trends. For example, if the U.S. Dollar weakens year-over-year relative to currencies in our 
international locations, our consolidated net sales and operating expenses will be higher than if currencies had remained 
constant. Likewise, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens year-over-year relative to currencies in our international locations, our 
consolidated net sales and operating expenses will be lower than if currencies had remained constant. We believe that our 
increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our growing international businesses benefits our shareholders 
over the long-term. We also believe it is useful to evaluate our operating results and growth rates before and after the effect of 
currency changes.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles of the United States 
(“GAAP”) requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, 
and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Critical 
accounting estimates are those estimates made in accordance with GAAP that involve a significant level of estimation 
uncertainty and have had or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on the financial condition or results of operations of 
the Company. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting estimates addressed below. We also have 
other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to 
understanding our results. For additional information, see Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — 
Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental Disclosures.” Although we believe that our 
estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may 
differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions.

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, 
administrative practices, principles, and interpretations in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or 
without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and 
estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of 
business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. In addition, our actual and forecasted earnings are subject to 
change due to economic, political, and other conditions and significant judgment is required in determining our ability to use 
our deferred tax assets.

Our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions, 
investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, 
including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated 
in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related 
tax benefits, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in foreign exchange rates, changes in our stock price, changes to 
our forecasts of income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in our deferred tax assets and 
liabilities and their valuation, changes in the laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to 
tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. In 
addition, a number of countries have enacted or are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate 
multinationals.

We are also currently subject to tax controversies in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions may assess additional 
income tax liabilities against us. Developments in an audit, investigation, or other tax controversy could have a material effect 
on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and 
subsequent periods. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these proceedings to determine the 
adequacy of our tax accruals. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of audits, investigations, 
and any other tax controversies could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals.

Cash flow information is as follows (in millions):

Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and 
marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $70.0 billion and $86.8 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2023. 
Amounts held in foreign currencies were $18.3 billion and $23.5 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2023. Our foreign 
currency balances include British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Euros, Indian Rupees, and Japanese Yen.

Cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $46.8 billion and $84.9 billion in 2022 and 2023. Our operating cash 
flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, and 
advertisers, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation, payment processing and 
related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments. Cash received from our customers and other activities 
generally corresponds to our net sales. The increase in operating cash flow in 2023, compared to the prior year, was due to an 
increase in net income (loss), excluding non-cash expenses, and changes in working capital. Working capital at any specific 
point in time is subject to many variables, including variability in demand, inventory management and category expansion, the 
timing of cash receipts and payments, customer and vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.

acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable 
securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(37.6) billion and $(49.8) billion in 2022 and 2023, with the 
variability caused primarily by purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities and cash capital expenditures. Cash 
capital expenditures were $58.3 billion, and $48.1 billion in 2022 and 2023, which primarily reflect investments in technology 
infrastructure (the majority of which is to support AWS business growth) and in additional capacity to support our fulfillment 
network, which investments we expect to increase in 2024. We made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition 
and other investment activity of $8.3 billion and $5.8 billion in 2022 and 2023. We funded the acquisitions of MGM Holdings 
Inc. in 2022 and 1Life Healthcare, Inc. (One Medical) in 2023 with cash on hand. In 2023, we invested $1.25 billion in a note 
from Anthropic, PBC, which is convertible into equity. We have an agreement that expires in Q1 2024 to invest up to an 
additional $2.75 billion in a second convertible note.

As of December 31, 2023, cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries were $4.7 
billion. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, 
indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of 
such amounts.

Our U.S. taxable income is reduced by accelerated depreciation deductions and increased by the impact of capitalized 
research and development expenses. U.S. tax rules provide for enhanced accelerated depreciation deductions by allowing us to 
expense a portion of qualified property, primarily equipment. These enhanced deductions are scheduled to phase out annually 
from 2023 through 2026. Our federal tax provision included a partial accelerated depreciation deduction election for 2021, and 
a full election for 2022 and 2023. Additionally, effective January 1, 2022, research and development expenses are required to 
be capitalized and amortized for U.S. tax purposes, which delays the deductibility of these expenses. Cash paid for U.S. (federal 
and state) and foreign income taxes (net of refunds) totaled $6.0 billion and $11.2 billion for 2022 and 2023.

We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, 
as well as our borrowing arrangements, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 
twelve months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See 
Item 1A of Part I, “Risk Factors.” We continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit 
facilities, obtain finance and operating lease arrangements, enter into financing obligations, repurchase common stock, pay 
dividends, or repurchase, refinance, or otherwise restructure our debt for strategic reasons or to further strengthen our financial 
position.

The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would be dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, we will, 
from time to time, consider the acquisition of, or investment in, complementary businesses, products, services, capital 
infrastructure, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements or cause us to secure additional financing, or 
issue additional equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that additional credit lines or financing instruments will be 
available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, economic conditions and actions by policymaking 
bodies are contributing to changing interest rates and significant capital market volatility, which, along with any increases in 
our borrowing levels, could increase our future borrowing costs.

Macroeconomic factors, including inflation, increased interest rates, significant capital market and supply chain volatility, 
and global economic and geopolitical developments, have direct and indirect impacts on our results of operations that are 
difficult to isolate and quantify. In addition, changes in fuel, utility, and food costs, interest rates, and economic outlook may 
impact customer demand and our ability to forecast consumer spending patterns. We also expect the current macroeconomic 
environment and enterprise customer cost optimization efforts to impact our AWS revenue growth rates. We expect some or all 
of these factors to continue to impact our operations into Q1 2024.

Net sales include product and service sales. Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping 
fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Service sales primarily represent third-party seller fees, which 
includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, AWS sales, advertising services, Amazon Prime 
membership fees, and certain digital media content subscriptions. Net sales information is as follows (in millions):

Operating Income (Loss)

Operating income (loss) by segment is as follows (in millions):

2022
2023
Operating Income (Loss)

Operating income was $12.2 billion and $36.9 billion for 2022 and 2023. We believe that operating income is a more 
meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services.

The North America operating income in 2023, as compared to the operating loss in the prior year, is primarily due to 
increased unit sales and increased advertising sales, partially offset by increased shipping and fulfillment costs and increased 
technology and infrastructure costs.

The increase in AWS operating income in absolute dollars in 2023, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to 
increased sales, partially offset by increased payroll and related expenses and spending on technology infrastructure, both of 
which were primarily driven by additional investments to support AWS business growth. Changes in foreign exchange rates 
positively impacted operating income by $220 million in 2023.

Operating Expenses

Information about operating expenses is as follows (in millions):

2022
2023
Operating Expenses:

Cost of sales
$ 288,831 
$ 304,739 
Fulfillment
 
84,299 
 
90,619 
Technology and infrastructure
 
73,213 
 
85,622 
Sales and marketing
 
42,238 
 
44,370 
General and administrative
 
11,891 
 
11,816 
Other operating expense (income), net
 
1,263 
 
767 
Total operating expenses
$ 501,735 
$ 537,933 
Year-over-year Percentage Growth (Decline):

Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, 
including costs related to sortation and delivery centers and where we are the transportation service provider, and digital media 
content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music.

Technology and infrastructure costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and 
development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and 
display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include 
servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization, rent, utilities, and other expenses 
necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to 
offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers, including expenditures related to initiatives to build and deploy 
innovative and efficient software and electronic devices and the development of a satellite network for global broadband service 
and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services.

Sales and marketing costs include advertising and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and 
selling activities, including sales commissions related to AWS. We direct customers to our stores primarily through a number of 
marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, social and online advertising, third-party customer referrals, television 
advertising, and other initiatives. Our marketing costs are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the 
extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we 
would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs.

The increase in sales and marketing costs in absolute dollars in 2023, compared to the prior year, is primarily due to 
increased payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities.

General and administrative costs were $11.9 billion and $11.8 billion during 2022 and 2023, and were primarily related to 
payroll and related expenses and professional fees.

Our long-term lease liabilities were $73.0 billion and $77.3 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2023. Our long-term 
debt was $67.1 billion and $58.3 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2023. See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and 
Supplementary Data — Note 4 — Leases and Note 6 — Debt” for additional information.

Other income (expense), net was $(16.8) billion and $938 million during 2022 and 2023. The primary components of 
other income (expense), net are related to equity securities valuations and adjustments, equity warrant valuations, and foreign 
currency. Included in other income (expense), net in 2022 and 2023 is a marketable equity securities valuation gain (loss) of 
$(12.7) billion and $797 million from our equity investment in Rivian.

Our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and 
taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, intercompany transactions, the applicability of special 
tax regimes, changes in how we do business, acquisitions, investments, developments in tax controversies, changes in our stock 
price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in statutes, 
regulations, case law, and administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global 
tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions, and relative changes of expenses or 
losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Our effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pretax income or loss. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater 
when our pre-tax income is lower. In addition, we record valuation allowances against deferred tax assets when there is 
uncertainty about our ability to generate future income in relevant jurisdictions.

Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the 
conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of free cash flows and the effect of foreign 
exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations meet the definition of non-GAAP financial measures.

We provide multiple measures of free cash flows because we believe these measures provide additional perspective on 
the impact of acquiring property and equipment with cash and through finance leases and financing obligations.

Free Cash Flow

Free cash flow is cash flow from operations reduced by “Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales 
and incentives.” The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net 
cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2022 and 2023 (in millions):

2022
2023
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
$ 
46,752 $ 
84,946 
Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives
 
(58,321)  
(48,133) 
Free cash flow
$ 
(11,569) $ 
36,813

Free Cash Flow Less Principal Repayments of Finance Leases and Financing Obligations

Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations is free cash flow reduced by 
“Principal repayments of finance leases” and “Principal repayments of financing obligations.” Principal repayments of finance 
leases and financing obligations approximates the actual payments of cash for our finance leases and financing obligations. The 
following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations to the most 
comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities,” for 2022 and 2023 (in millions):

2022
2023
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
$ 
46,752 $ 
84,946 
Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives
 
(58,321)  
(48,133) 
Free cash flow
 
(11,569)  
36,813 
Principal repayments of finance leases
 
(7,941)  
(4,384) 
Principal repayments of financing obligations
 
(248)  
(271) 
Free cash flow less principal repayments of finance leases and financing obligations
$ 
(19,758) $ 
32,158

Free Cash Flow Less Equipment Finance Leases and Principal Repayments of All Other Finance Leases and Financing 
Obligations

Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance leases and financing 
obligations is free cash flow reduced by equipment acquired under finance leases, which is included in “Property and 
equipment acquired under finance leases, net of remeasurements and modifications,” principal repayments of all other finance 
lease liabilities, which is included in “Principal repayments of finance leases,” and “Principal repayments of financing 
obligations.” All other finance lease liabilities and financing obligations consists of property. In this measure, equipment 
acquired under finance leases is reflected as if these assets had been purchased with cash, which is not the case as these assets 
have been leased. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of 
all other finance leases and financing obligations to the most comparable GAAP cash flow measure, “Net cash provided by 
(used in) operating activities,” for 2022 and 2023 (in millions):

2022
2023
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
$ 
46,752 $ 
84,946 
Purchases of property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales and incentives
 
(58,321)  
(48,133) 
Free cash flow
 
(11,569)  
36,813 
Equipment acquired under finance leases (1)
 
(299)  
(310) 
Principal repayments of all other finance leases (2)
 
(670)  
(683) 
Principal repayments of financing obligations
 
(248)  
(271) 
Free cash flow less equipment finance leases and principal repayments of all other finance 
leases and financing obligations
$ 
(12,786) $ 
35,549

All of these free cash flows measures have limitations as they omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement 
and do not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, these measures of free cash 
flows do not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt or cash payments for business 
acquisitions. Additionally, our mix of property and equipment acquisitions with cash or other financing options may change 
over time. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flows measures only as a complement to our entire 
consolidated statements of cash flows.

Information regarding the effect of foreign exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our net sales, operating expenses, 
and operating income is provided to show reported period operating results had the foreign exchange rates remained the same 
as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. The effect on our net sales, operating expenses, and operating income 
from changes in our foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions):

Year
Rates (2)
Net sales
$ 513,983 $ 15,495 $ 529,478 $ 574,785 $ 
71 $ 574,856 
Operating expenses
 501,735  16,356  518,091  537,933  
531  538,464 
Operating income
 12,248  
(861)  11,387  36,852  
(460)  36,392

We provided guidance on February 1, 2024, in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These 
forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com’s expectations as of February 1, 2024, and are subject to substantial 
uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in 
foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic and geopolitical conditions and customer demand and spending (including 
the impact of recessionary fears), inflation, interest rates, regional labor market constraints, world events, the rate of growth of 
the internet, online commerce, cloud services, and new and emerging technologies, as well as those outlined in Item 1A of Part 
I, “Risk Factors.”

•
Operating income is expected to be between $8.0 billion and $12.0 billion, compared with $4.8 billion in first quarter 
2023. This guidance includes approximately $0.9 billion lower depreciation expense due to an increase in the 
estimated useful life of our servers beginning on January 1, 2024.

We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term 
marketable debt securities. Marketable debt securities with fixed interest rates may have their fair market value adversely 
affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in 
market value due to changes in interest rates. The following table provides information about our cash equivalents and 
marketable debt securities, including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the related weighted-average interest rates 
as of December 31, 2023 (in millions, except percentages):

During 2023, net sales from our International segment accounted for 23% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and 
related expenses generated from our internationally-focused stores, including within Canada and Mexico (which are included in 
our North America segment), are primarily denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding stores and primarily 
include Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances 
associated with, our internationally-focused stores and AWS are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon 
consolidation, as foreign exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and 
we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of 
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates throughout the year compared to rates in effect the prior year, International segment net 
sales increased by $88 million in comparison with the prior year.

Equity Investment Risk

As of December 31, 2023, our recorded value in equity, equity warrant, and convertible debt investments in public and 
private companies was $9.6 billion. Our equity and equity warrant investments in publicly traded companies, which include our 
equity investment in Rivian, represent $5.7 billion of our investments as of December 31, 2023, and are recorded at fair value, 
which is subject to market price volatility. We record our equity warrant investments in private companies at fair value and 
adjust our equity investments in private companies for observable price changes or impairments. Valuations of private 
companies are inherently more complex due to the lack of readily available market data. The current global economic 
conditions provide additional uncertainty. As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable. See Item 8 of Part II, 
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 1 — Description of Business, Accounting Policies, and Supplemental 
Disclosures” for additional information.

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Page
Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42)
35
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
37
Consolidated Statements of Operations
38
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)
39
Consolidated Balance Sheets
40
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
41
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
42

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 
2023 and 2022, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), stockholders’ equity, and cash 
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2023, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the 
“consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, 
the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2023 and 2022, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for 
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2023, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting 
principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United 
States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023, based on criteria 
established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 1, 2024 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

As discussed in Notes 1 and 9 of the consolidated financial statements, the Company is subject to income 
taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions and during the ordinary course of business, there are 
many tax positions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, significant judgment 
is required in evaluating the Company’s tax positions and determining its provision for income taxes. The 
Company uses significant judgment in (1) determining whether a tax position’s technical merits are more 
likely than not to be sustained and (2) measuring the amount of tax benefit that qualifies for recognition. 
As of December 31, 2023, the Company reported accrued liabilities of $5.2 billion for various tax 
contingencies.

AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

2021
2022
2023
CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, BEGINNING OF 
PERIOD
$ 
42,377 
$ 
36,477 
$ 
54,253 
OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Net income (loss)
 
33,364 
 
(2,722)  
30,425 
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash from operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and capitalized content 
costs, operating lease assets, and other
 
34,433 
 
41,921 
 
48,663 
Stock-based compensation
 
12,757 
 
19,621 
 
24,023 
Non-operating expense (income), net
 
(14,306)  
16,966 
 
(748) 
Deferred income taxes
 
(310)  
(8,148)  
(5,876) 
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

Inventories
 
(9,487)  
(2,592)  
1,449 
Accounts receivable, net and other
 
(9,145)  
(8,622)  
(8,348) 
Other assets
 
(9,018)  
(13,275)  
(12,265) 
Accounts payable
 
3,602 
 
2,945 
 
5,473 
Accrued expenses and other
 
2,123 
 
(1,558)  
(2,428) 
Unearned revenue
 
2,314 
 
2,216 
 
4,578 
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
 
46,327 
 
46,752 
 
84,946 
INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Purchases of property and equipment
 
(61,053)  
(63,645)  
(52,729) 
Proceeds from property and equipment sales and incentives
 
5,657 
 
5,324 
 
4,596 
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, non-marketable investments, and other
 
(1,985)  
(8,316)  
(5,839) 
Sales and maturities of marketable securities
 
59,384 
 
31,601 
 
5,627 
Purchases of marketable securities
 
(60,157)  
(2,565)  
(1,488) 
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
 
(58,154)  
(37,601)  
(49,833) 
FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Common stock repurchased
 
— 
 
(6,000)  
— 
Proceeds from short-term debt, and other
 
7,956 
 
41,553 
 
18,129 
Repayments of short-term debt, and other
 
(7,753)  
(37,554)  
(25,677) 
Proceeds from long-term debt
 
19,003 
 
21,166 
 
— 
Repayments of long-term debt
 
(1,590)  
(1,258)  
(3,676) 
Principal repayments of finance leases
 
(11,163)  
(7,941)  
(4,384) 
Principal repayments of financing obligations
 
(162)  
(248)  
(271) 
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
6,291 
 
9,718 
 
(15,879) 
Foreign currency effect on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash
 
(364)  
(1,093)  
403 
Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash
 
(5,900)  
17,776 
 
19,637 
CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND RESTRICTED CASH, END OF PERIOD
$ 
36,477 
$ 
54,253 
$ 
73,890

2021
2022
2023
Net product sales
$ 
241,787 $ 
242,901 $ 
255,887 
Net service sales
 
228,035  
271,082  
318,898 
Total net sales
 
469,822  
513,983  
574,785 
Operating expenses:

Cost of sales
 
272,344  
288,831  
304,739 
Fulfillment
 
75,111  
84,299  
90,619 
Technology and infrastructure
 
56,052  
73,213  
85,622 
Sales and marketing
 
32,551  
42,238  
44,370 
General and administrative
 
8,823  
11,891  
11,816 
Other operating expense (income), net
 
62  
1,263  
767 
Total operating expenses
 
444,943  
501,735  
537,933 
Operating income
 
24,879  
12,248  
36,852 
Interest income
 
448  
989  
2,949 
Interest expense
 
(1,809)  
(2,367)  
(3,182) 
Other income (expense), net
 
14,633  
(16,806)  
938 
Total non-operating income (expense)
 
13,272  
(18,184)  
705 
Income (loss) before income taxes
 
38,151  
(5,936)  
37,557 
Benefit (provision) for income taxes
 
(4,791)  
3,217  
(7,120) 
Equity-method investment activity, net of tax
 
4  
(3)  
(12) 
Net income (loss)
$ 
33,364 $ 
(2,722) $ 
30,425 
Basic earnings per share
$ 
3.30 $ 
(0.27) $ 
2.95 
Diluted earnings per share
$ 
3.24 $ 
(0.27) $ 
2.90 
Weighted-average shares used in computation of earnings per share:

2021
2022
2023
Net income (loss)
$ 
33,364 $ 
(2,722) $ 
30,425 
Other comprehensive income (loss):

AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

Cash and cash equivalents
$ 
53,888 $ 
73,387 
Marketable securities
 
16,138  
13,393 
Inventories
 
34,405  
33,318 
Accounts receivable, net and other
 
42,360  
52,253 
Total current assets
 
146,791  
172,351 
Property and equipment, net
 
186,715  
204,177 
Operating leases
 
66,123  
72,513 
Goodwill
 
20,288  
22,789 
Other assets
 
42,758  
56,024 
Total assets
$ 
462,675 $ 
527,854 
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable
$ 
79,600 $ 
84,981 
Accrued expenses and other
 
62,566  
64,709 
Unearned revenue
 
13,227  
15,227 
Total current liabilities
 
155,393  
164,917 
Long-term lease liabilities
 
72,968  
77,297 
Long-term debt
 
67,150  
58,314 
Other long-term liabilities
 
21,121  
25,451 
Commitments and contingencies (Note 7)
Stockholders’ equity:

Preferred stock ($0.01 par value; 500 shares authorized; no shares issued or outstanding)  
—  
— 
Common stock ($0.01 par value; 100,000 shares authorized; 10,757 and 10,898 shares 
issued; 10,242 and 10,383 shares outstanding)
 
108  
109 
Treasury stock, at cost
 
(7,837)  
(7,837) 
Additional paid-in capital
 
75,066  
99,025 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
 
(4,487)  
(3,040) 
Retained earnings
 
83,193  
113,618 
Total stockholders’ equity
 
146,043  
201,875 
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity
$ 
462,675 $ 
527,854

AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Retained
Earnings

Equity
Balance as of January 1, 2021
 
10,066 
$ 
105 
$ 
(1,837) $ 42,765 
$ 
(180) $ 52,551 
$ 
93,404 
Net income
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
33,364 
 
33,364 
Other comprehensive income (loss)
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
(1,196)  
— 
 
(1,196) 
Stock-based compensation and issuance of 
employee benefit plan stock
 
109 
 
1 
 
— 
 
12,672 
 
— 
 
— 
 
12,673 
Balance as of December 31, 2021
 
10,175 
 
106 
 
(1,837)  
55,437 
 
(1,376)  
85,915 
 
138,245 
Net loss
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
(2,722)  
(2,722) 
Other comprehensive income (loss)
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
(3,111)  
— 
 
(3,111) 
Stock-based compensation and issuance of 
employee benefit plan stock
 
113 
 
2 
 
— 
 
19,629 
 
— 
 
— 
 
19,631 
Common stock repurchased
 
(46)  
— 
 
(6,000)  
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
(6,000) 
Balance as of December 31, 2022
 
10,242 
 
108 
 
(7,837)  
75,066 
 
(4,487)  
83,193 
 
146,043 
Net income
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
30,425 
 
30,425 
Other comprehensive income (loss)
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
1,447 
 
— 
 
1,447 
Stock-based compensation and issuance of 
employee benefit plan stock
 
141 
 
1 
 
— 
 
23,959 
 
— 
 
— 
 
23,960 
Balance as of December 31, 2023
 
10,383 
$ 
109 
$ 
(7,837) $ 99,025 
$ 
(3,040) $ 113,618 
$ 201,875

Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. “Other assets” were 
reclassified out of “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated statements of cash flows.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the 
consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, income taxes, useful lives 
of equipment, commitments and contingencies, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, stock-based compensation 
forfeiture rates, vendor funding, inventory valuation, collectability of receivables, impairment of property and equipment and 
operating leases, valuation and impairment of investments, self-insurance liabilities, and viewing patterns of capitalized video 
content. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. For example, in Q4 2023 we completed a useful life study 
for our servers and are increasing the useful life from five years to six years in January 2024, which, based on servers that are 
included in “Property and equipment, net” as of December 31, 2023, will have an anticipated impact to our 2024 operating 
income of $3.1 billion. We had previously increased the useful life of our servers from four years to five years in January 2022.

For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded approximately $1.1 billion, of which $720 million was recorded in 
the fourth quarter, of impairments of property and equipment and operating leases primarily related to physical stores. These 
charges were recorded in “Other operating expense (income), net” on our consolidated statements of operations and primarily 
impacted our North America segment. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we also recorded expenses of approximately 
$480 million, primarily in “Fulfillment”, on our consolidated statements of operations primarily relating to terminating 
contracts for certain leases not yet commenced as well as other purchase commitments, which primarily impacted our North 
America segment.

Charges for impairment, expenses for terminating contracts and other commitments, and severance costs were not 
material to our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2023.

Supplemental Cash Flow Information

The following table shows supplemental cash flow information (in millions):

2021
2022
2023
SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION:
Cash paid for interest on debt, net of capitalized interest
$ 
1,098 $ 
1,561 $ 
2,608

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share 
is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as 
determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we have a net loss, stock awards are excluded from our 
calculation of earnings per share as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect.

2021
2022
2023
Shares used in computation of basic earnings per share
 
10,117  
10,189  
10,304 
Total dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards
 
179  
—  
188 
Shares used in computation of diluted earnings per share
 
10,296  
10,189  
10,492

Revenue

Revenue is measured based on the amount of consideration that we expect to receive, reduced by estimates for return 
allowances, promotional discounts, and rebates. Revenue also excludes any amounts collected on behalf of third parties, 
including sales and indirect taxes. In arrangements where we have multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is 
allocated to each performance obligation using the relative stand-alone selling price. We generally determine stand-alone 
selling prices based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost plus a margin.

A description of our principal revenue generating activities is as follows:

Retail sales - We offer consumer products through our online and physical stores. Revenue is recognized when control of 
the goods is transferred to the customer, which generally occurs upon our delivery to a third-party carrier or, in the case of an 
Amazon delivery, to the customer.

Advertising services - We provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through 
programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising. Revenue is recognized as ads are delivered based on the 
number of clicks or impressions.

Subscription services - Our subscription sales include fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships and access to 
content including digital video, audiobooks, digital music, e-books, and other non-AWS subscription services. Prime 
memberships provide our customers with access to an evolving suite of benefits that represent a single stand-ready obligation. 
Subscriptions are paid for at the time of or in advance of delivering the services. Revenue from such arrangements is recognized 
over the subscription period.

AWS - Our AWS arrangements include global sales of compute, storage, database, and other services. Revenue is 
allocated to services using stand-alone selling prices and is primarily recognized when the customer uses these services, based 
on the quantity of services rendered, such as compute or storage capacity delivered on-demand. Certain services, including 
compute and database, are also offered as a fixed quantity over a specified term, for which revenue is recognized ratably. Sales 
commissions we pay in connection with contracts that exceed one year are capitalized and amortized over the contract term.

Other - Other revenue includes sales related to various other offerings, such as certain licensing and distribution of video 
content, health care services, and shipping services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Revenue is recognized when 
content is licensed or distributed and as or when services are performed.

Return allowances, which reduce revenue and cost of sales, are estimated using historical experience. Liabilities for 
return allowances are included in “Accrued expenses and other” and were $1.0 billion, $1.3 billion, and $1.4 billion as of 
December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023. Additions to the allowance were $5.1 billion, $5.5 billion, and $5.2 billion and deductions 
from the allowance were $4.9 billion, $5.2 billion, and $5.1 billion in 2021, 2022, and 2023. Included in “Inventories” on our 
consolidated balance sheets are assets totaling $882 million, $948 million, and $992 million as of December 31, 2021, 2022, 
and 2023, for the rights to recover products from customers associated with our liabilities for return allowances.

Cost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping costs, 
including costs related to sortation and delivery centers and where we are the transportation service provider, and digital media 
content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers 
are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and 
related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in “Fulfillment” on our consolidated 
statements of operations.

Fulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International 
segments’ fulfillment centers, physical stores, and customer service centers, including facilities and equipment expenses, such 
as depreciation and amortization, and rent; costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; 
picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including 
costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from customers; and supply chain 
management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us 
in fulfillment and customer service operations.

Technology and infrastructure costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and 
development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our stores, curation and 
display of products and services made available in our online stores, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include 
servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation and amortization, rent, utilities, and other expenses 
necessary to support AWS and other Amazon businesses. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to 
offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers, including expenditures related to initiatives to build and deploy 
innovative and efficient software and electronic devices and the development of a satellite network for global broadband service 
and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services. Technology and infrastructure costs are generally expensed as incurred.

Sales and marketing costs include advertising and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and 
selling activities, including sales commissions related to AWS. We pay commissions to third parties when their customer 
referrals result in sales. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third 
parties.

General and administrative expenses primarily consist of costs for corporate functions, including payroll and related 
expenses; facilities and equipment expenses, such as depreciation and amortization expense and rent; and professional fees.

Compensation cost for all equity-classified stock awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant 
and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares 
granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of 
estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. Under this method, approximately 50% of the grant date fair value is 
recognized as expense in the first year of grant for the majority of our stock-based compensation awards. The accelerated 
method also adds a higher level of sensitivity and complexity in estimating forfeitures. If an award is forfeited early in its life, 
the adjustment to compensation expense is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. The 
estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated 
estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates 
are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including historical forfeiture experience by grant 
year and employee level. Additionally, stock-based compensation includes stock appreciation rights that are expected to settle 
in cash. These liability-classified awards are remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period until settlement or 
expiration.

2021
2022
2023
Marketable equity securities valuation gains (losses)
$ 11,526 $ (13,870) $ 
984

Equity warrant valuation gains (losses)
 
1,315  
(2,132)  
26

Upward adjustments relating to equity investments in private companies
 
1,866  
76  
40

Included in other income (expense), net in 2022 and 2023 is a marketable equity securities valuation gain (loss) of $(12.7) 
billion and $797 million from our equity investment in Rivian Automotive, Inc. (“Rivian”). Our investment in Rivian’s 
preferred stock was accounted for at cost, with adjustments for observable changes in prices or impairments, prior to Rivian’s 
initial public offering in November 2021, which resulted in the conversion of our preferred stock to Class A common stock. As 
of December 31, 2023, we held 158 million shares of Rivian’s Class A common stock, representing an approximate 16% 
ownership interest, and an approximate 15% voting interest. We determined that we have the ability to exercise significant 
influence over Rivian through our equity investment, our commercial arrangement for the purchase of electric vehicles and 
jointly-owned intellectual property, and one of our employees serving on Rivian’s board of directors. We elected the fair value 
option to account for our equity investment in Rivian, which is included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance 
sheets, and had a fair value of $2.9 billion and $3.7 billion as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2023. The investment 
was subject to regulatory sales restrictions resulting in a discount for lack of marketability of approximately $800 million as of 
December 31, 2021, which expired in Q1 2022.

Revenues
$ 
55 $ 
1,658 $ 
3,119

Gross profit
 
(465)  
(3,123)  
(1,424)

Total current liabilities
 
2,424  
2,624

Total liabilities
 
4,077  
5,904

Income tax expense includes U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Certain foreign subsidiary earnings and 
losses are subject to current U.S. taxation and the subsequent repatriation of those earnings is not subject to tax in the U.S. We 
intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely 
outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such 
amounts.

Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities and their tax bases, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and are stated at enacted tax rates 
expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered.

Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable in future periods. Deferred tax assets are 
evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe they will not be realized. We 
consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including recent cumulative 
loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains and investment in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods 
available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors.

Level 1 — Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets.

Level 2 — Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted 
prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities 
in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.

We measure the fair value of money market funds and certain marketable equity securities based on quoted prices in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Other marketable securities were valued either based on recent trades of 
securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from 
or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold significant amounts of marketable securities categorized as Level 3 
assets as of December 31, 2022 and 2023.

We hold equity warrants giving us the right to acquire stock of other companies. As of December 31, 2022 and 2023, 
these warrants had a fair value of $2.1 billion and $2.2 billion, and are recorded within “Other assets” on our consolidated 
balance sheets with gains and losses recognized in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. 
These warrants are classified as Level 2 and 3 assets.

Included in “Accounts receivable, net and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are receivables primarily related to 
customers, vendors, and sellers, as well as prepaid expenses and other current assets. As of December 31, 2022 and 2023, 
customer receivables, net, were $26.6 billion and $34.1 billion, vendor receivables, net, were $6.9 billion and $8.5 billion, seller 
receivables, net, were $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion, and other receivables, net, were $3.1 billion and $3.3 billion. Seller 
receivables are amounts due from sellers related to our seller lending program, which provides funding to sellers primarily to 
procure inventory. Prepaid expenses and other current assets were $4.5 billion and $5.4 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 
December 31, 2023.

Lease liabilities are recognized at the present value of the fixed lease payments, reduced by landlord incentives using a 
discount rate based on similarly secured borrowings available to us. Lease assets are recognized based on the initial present 
value of the fixed lease payments, reduced by landlord incentives, plus any direct costs from executing the leases or lease 
prepayments reclassified from “Other assets” upon lease commencement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and 
amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the lease term.

Costs associated with operating lease assets are recognized on a straight-line basis within operating expenses over the 
term of the lease. Finance lease assets are amortized within operating expenses on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the 
estimated useful lives of the assets or, in the instance where title does not transfer at the end of the lease term, the lease term. 
The interest component of a finance lease is included in interest expense and recognized using the effective interest method 
over the lease term.

We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the 
termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are amortized over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded 
liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs.

We record assets and liabilities for estimated construction costs under build-to-suit lease arrangements when we have 
control over the building during the construction period. If we continue to control the building after the construction period, the 
arrangement is classified as a financing obligation instead of a lease. The building is depreciated over the shorter of its useful 
life or the term of the obligation.

If we do not control the building after the construction period ends, the assets and liabilities for construction costs are 
derecognized, and we classify the lease as operating.

We evaluate goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently when an event 
occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We may elect to utilize a qualitative 
assessment to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible asset 
is less than its carrying value and if so, we perform a quantitative test. We compare the carrying value of each reporting unit and 
indefinite-lived intangible asset to its estimated fair value and if the fair value is determined to be less than the carrying value, 
we recognize an impairment loss for the difference. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash 
flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily 
on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions.

Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to video and music content, 
net of accumulated amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; acquired intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization; 
equity warrant assets and certain equity investments; satellite network launch services deposits; and affordable housing loans. 
We recognize certain transactions with governments when there is reasonable assurance that incentives included in the 
agreements, such as cash or certain tax credits, will be received and we are able to comply with any related conditions. These 
incentives are recorded as reductions to the cost of related assets or expenses.

We generally invest our excess cash in AAA-rated money market funds and investment grade short- to intermediate-term 
marketable debt securities. Such investments are included in “Cash and cash equivalents” or “Marketable securities” on the 
accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

Convertible notes classified as available for sale, equity investments in private companies for which we do not have the 
ability to exercise significant influence and accounted for at cost, and equity investments accounted for using the equity method 
of accounting are included within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets.

In Q3 2023, we invested in a $1.25 billion note from Anthropic, PBC, which is convertible to equity. The note is 
classified as available for sale and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in “Accumulated other 
comprehensive income (loss).” The note is classified as a Level 3 asset. We have an agreement that expires in Q1 2024 to invest 
up to an additional $2.75 billion in a second convertible note. We also have a commercial arrangement primarily for the 
provision of AWS cloud services, which includes the use of AWS chips.

Equity investments in private companies for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are 
accounted for at cost, with adjustments for observable changes in prices or impairments, with adjustments recognized in “Other 
income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations. Each reporting period, we perform a qualitative 
assessment to evaluate whether the investment is impaired. Our assessment includes a review of recent operating results and 
trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available data. If the investment is impaired, we 
write it down to its estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2022 and 2023, these investments had a carrying value of $715 
million and $754 million.

Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, or at fair value if we elect the fair value 
option, if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Our share of the 
earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of basis differences, related gains or losses, and 
impairments, if any, are recognized in “Equity-method investment activity, net of tax” on our consolidated statements of 
operations. Each reporting period, we evaluate whether declines in fair value below carrying value are other-than-temporary 
and if so, we write down the investment to its estimated fair value.

Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values, including investments for which we have elected the fair 
value option, are included in “Marketable securities” on our consolidated balance sheets and measured at fair value with 
changes recognized in “Other income (expense), net” on our consolidated statements of operations.

For long-lived assets used in operations, including lease assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying 
amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss 
based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale 
when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for 
sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at 
the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not significant as of December 31, 2022 and 2023.

Accrued Expenses and Other

Included in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to leases and 
asset retirement obligations, tax-related liabilities, current debt, payroll and related expenses, unredeemed gift cards, selfinsurance liabilities, customer liabilities, marketing liabilities, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses.

As of December 31, 2022 and 2023, our liabilities for payroll related expenses were $7.7 billion and our liabilities for 
unredeemed gift cards were $5.4 billion and $5.3 billion. We reduce the liability for a gift card when redeemed by a customer. 
The portion of gift cards that we do not expect to be redeemed is recognized based on customer usage patterns.

Self-Insurance Liabilities

Although we maintain certain high-deductible, third-party insurance coverage for catastrophic losses, we effectively selfinsure for exposure primarily related to workers’ compensation, employee health care benefits, general and product liability, 
and automobile liability, including liability resulting from third-party transportation service providers. We estimate selfinsurance liabilities by considering historical claims experience, frequency and costs of claims, projected claims development, 
inflation, and other actuarial assumptions. Changes in the number or costs of claims, healthcare costs, judgment and settlement 
amounts, associated legal expenses, and other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from these estimates. In the 
fourth quarter of 2022, we increased our reserves for general, product, and automobile liabilities by $1.3 billion primarily 
driven by changes in our estimates about the costs of asserted and unasserted claims, which was primarily recorded in “Cost of 
sales” on our consolidated statements of operations and impacted our North America segment. Increases to our reserves driven 
by changes in estimates were not material to our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and

2023. As of December 31, 2022 and 2023, our total self-insurance liabilities were $4.0 billion and $6.3 billion and are included 
in “Accrued expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets.

Unearned Revenue

Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received or due in advance of performing our service obligations and is 
recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of AWS services and Amazon Prime 
memberships. Our total unearned revenue as of December 31, 2022 was $16.1 billion, of which $12.4 billion was recognized as 
revenue during the year ended December 31, 2023 and our total unearned revenue as of December 31, 2023 was $20.6 billion. 
Included in “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets was $2.9 billion and $5.7 billion of unearned 
revenue as of December 31, 2022 and 2023.

Additionally, we have performance obligations, primarily related to AWS, associated with commitments in customer 
contracts for future services that have not yet been recognized in our financial statements. For contracts with original terms that 
exceed one year, those commitments not yet recognized were $155.7 billion as of December 31, 2023. The weighted average 
remaining life of our long-term contracts is 4.0 years. However, the amount and timing of revenue recognition is largely driven 
by customer usage, which can extend beyond the original contractual term.

Other Long-Term Liabilities

Included in “Other long-term liabilities” on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to financing 
obligations, unearned revenue, asset retirement obligations, tax contingencies, digital video and music content, and deferred tax 
liabilities.

We have internationally-focused stores for which the net sales generated, as well as most of the related expenses directly 
incurred from those operations, are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that 
either operate or support these stores is generally the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are 
translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates 
prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” a 
separate component of stockholders’ equity. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a 
currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in “Other income (expense), net” on our 
consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the settlement and remeasurement of intercompany balances, we 
recorded gains (losses) of $19 million, $386 million, and $(329) million in 2021, 2022, and 2023.

As of December 31, 2022 and 2023, our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities primarily 
consisted of cash, AAA-rated money market funds, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, other investment grade 
securities, and marketable equity securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. The following 
table summarizes, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities that are 
measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions):

Money market funds
 
27,899  
—  
—  
27,899 
Equity securities (1)
 
3,709 
Level 2 securities:

Money market funds
 
39,160  
—  
—  
39,160 
Equity securities (1)
 
4,658 
Level 2 securities:

primarily as collateral for real estate, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade 
letters of credit. We classify cash, cash equivalents, and marketable debt securities with use restrictions of less than twelve 
months as “Accounts receivable, net and other” and of twelve months or longer as non-current “Other assets” on our 
consolidated balance sheets. See “Note 7 — Commitments and Contingencies.”

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Reconciliation

The following table provides a reconciliation of the amount of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash reported within 
the consolidated balance sheets to the total of the same such amounts shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows (in 
millions):

December 31, 2022
December 31, 2023
Cash and cash equivalents
$ 
53,888 $ 
73,387 
Restricted cash included in accounts receivable, net and other
 
358  
497 
Restricted cash included in other assets
 
7  
6 
Total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash shown in the consolidated statements of 
cash flows
$ 
54,253 $ 
73,890

Amortization of lease assets
 
9,857  
6,097  
5,899 
Interest on lease liabilities
 
473  
361  
304 
Finance lease cost
 
10,330  
6,458  
6,203 
Variable lease cost
 
1,556  
1,852  
2,165 
Total lease cost
$ 
19,085 $ 
17,157 $ 
18,918

Our lease liabilities were as follows (in millions):

Gross lease liabilities
$ 
81,273 $ 
18,019 $ 
99,292 
Less: imputed interest
 
(12,233)  
(2,236)  
(14,469) 
Present value of lease liabilities
 
69,040  
15,783  
84,823 
Less: current portion of lease liabilities
 
(7,458)  
(4,397)  
(11,855) 
Total long-term lease liabilities
$ 
61,582 $ 
11,386 $ 
72,968

Gross lease liabilities
$ 
90,777 $ 
14,106 $ 
104,883 
Less: imputed interest
 
(15,138)  
(1,997)  
(17,135) 
Present value of lease liabilities
 
75,639  
12,109  
87,748 
Less: current portion of lease liabilities
 
(8,419)  
(2,032)  
(10,451) 
Total long-term lease liabilities
$ 
67,220 $ 
10,077 $ 
77,297

Acquired identifiable intangible assets are valued primarily by using discounted cash flows. These assets are included 
within “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets and consist of the following (in millions):

years, and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line basis.
(3) Intangible assets acquired in a business combination that are in-process and used in research and development activities are

In January 2023, we entered into an $8.0 billion unsecured 364-day term loan with a syndicate of lenders (the “Term 
Loan”), maturing in January 2024 and bearing interest at the Secured Overnight Financing Rate specified in the Term Loan plus 
0.75%. The Term Loan was classified as short-term debt and included within “Accrued expenses and other” on our 
consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2023, the entire amount of the Term Loan has been repaid.

borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Programs as of December 31, 2022, which were included in “Accrued 
expenses and other” on our consolidated balance sheets and had a weighted-average effective interest rate, including issuance 
costs, of 4.5%. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Programs as of December 31, 2023. We use 
the net proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper for general corporate purposes.

We also utilize other short-term credit facilities for working capital purposes. There were $1.2 billion and $147 million of 
borrowings outstanding under these facilities as of December 31, 2022 and 2023, which were included in “Accrued expenses 
and other” on our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, we had $6.8 billion of unused letters of credit as of December 31, 
2023.

2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
Thereafter
Total
Long-term debt principal and interest
$ 10,616 $ 7,175 $ 4,858 $ 10,404 $ 3,643 $ 60,176 $ 96,872 
Operating lease liabilities
 11,229  9,922  9,156  8,321  7,546  44,603  90,777 
Finance lease liabilities, including interest
 2,292  1,471  1,369  1,123  1,022  
6,829  14,106 
Financing obligations, including interest (1)
 
469  
462  
468  
476  
484  
6,282  
8,641 
Leases not yet commenced
 2,034  2,620  2,836  2,852  2,979  24,860  38,181 
Unconditional purchase obligations (2)
 9,432  7,823  5,901  4,463  1,912  
5,953  35,484 
Other commitments (3)
 3,273  1,390  1,125  
759  
680  
9,121  16,348 
Total commitments
$ 39,345 $ 30,863 $ 25,713 $ 28,398 $ 18,266 $ 157,824 $ 300,409

financing obligations of $266 million and $271 million are recorded within “Accrued expenses and other” and $6.7 billion 
and $6.6 billion are recorded within “Other long-term liabilities” as of December 31, 2022 and 2023. The weighted-average 
remaining term of the financing obligations was 17.9 years and 17.0 years and the weighted-average imputed interest rate 
was 3.1% as of December 31, 2022 and 2023.
(2) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to long-term agreements to acquire and license digital media content

that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets, and certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores. 
For those digital media content agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the total obligation beyond any 
minimum quantities and/or pricing as of the reporting date. Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely 
at the option of the content provider are included to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is 
specified. Renewable energy agreements based on actual generation without a fixed or minimum volume commitment are 
not included. These agreements also provide the right to receive renewable energy certificates for no additional 
consideration.
(3) Includes asset retirement obligations, liabilities associated with digital media content agreements with initial terms greater

The outcomes of our legal proceedings and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable, subject to significant 
uncertainties, and could be material to our operating results and cash flows for a particular period. We evaluate, on a regular 
basis, developments in our legal proceedings and other contingencies that could affect the amount of liability, including 
amounts in excess of any previous accruals and reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our 
accruals and disclosures as appropriate. For the matters we disclose that do not include an estimate of the amount of loss or 
range of losses, such an estimate is not possible or is immaterial, and we may be unable to estimate the possible loss or range of 
losses that could potentially result from the application of non-monetary remedies. Until the final resolution of such matters, if 
any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, we may experience losses in excess of the 
amounts recorded, which could have a material effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or 
cash flows.

Note 8 — STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

In 2021, 2022, and 2023, we recorded a net tax provision (benefit) of $4.8 billion, $(3.2) billion, and $7.1 billion. Our 
U.S. taxable income is reduced by accelerated depreciation deductions and increased by the impact of capitalized research and 
development expenses. Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds, was $3.7 billion, $6.0 billion, and $11.2 billion for 2021, 
2022, and 2023.

Certain foreign subsidiary earnings and losses are subject to current U.S. taxation and the subsequent repatriation of those 
earnings is not subject to tax in the U.S. The U.S. tax rules also provide for enhanced accelerated depreciation deductions by 
allowing us to expense a portion of qualified property, primarily equipment. These enhanced deductions are scheduled to phase 
out annually from 2023 through 2026. Our federal tax provision included a partial accelerated depreciation deduction election 
for 2021, and a full election for 2022 and 2023. Effective January 1, 2022, research and development expenses are required to 
be capitalized and amortized for U.S. tax purposes.

Tax impact of foreign earnings and losses
 
(1,349)  
(370)  
594 
State taxes, net of federal benefits
 
465  
(173)  
1,307 
Tax credits
 
(1,136)  
(1,006)  
(2,362) 
Stock-based compensation (1)
 
(1,094)  
612  
1,047 
Foreign income deduction (2)
 
(301)  
(1,258)  
(1,429) 
Other, net
 
194  
224  
76 
Total
$ 
4,791 $ 
(3,217) $ 
7,120

We generated an income tax benefit in 2022 as compared to a provision for income taxes in 2021 primarily due to a 
decrease in pretax income and an increase in the foreign income deduction. This was partially offset by a reduction in excess 
tax benefits from stock-based compensation and a decrease in the tax impact of foreign earnings and losses driven by a decline 
in the favorable effects of corporate restructuring transactions. The foreign income deduction benefit recognized in 2022 
reflects a change in our application of tax regulations related to the computation of qualifying foreign income and includes a tax 
benefit of approximately $655 million related to years prior to 2022.

We recorded a provision for income taxes in 2023 as compared to an income tax benefit in 2022 primarily due to an 
increase in pretax income, a decrease in the tax impact of foreign earnings and losses driven by a decline in the favorable effects 
of corporate restructuring transactions, and an increase in tax shortfalls from stock-based compensation. This was partially 
offset by an increase in federal research and development credits, which included approximately $600 million of tax benefit 
recorded in 2023 related to a change in the estimated qualifying expenditures associated with our 2022 U.S. federal R&D credit.

We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, 
indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of 
such amounts.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions):

Loss carryforwards U.S. - Federal/States
 
386  
610 
Loss carryforwards - Foreign
 
2,831  
2,796 
Accrued liabilities, reserves, and other expenses
 
3,280  
3,751 
Stock-based compensation
 
4,295  
5,279 
Depreciation and amortization
 
1,009  
1,114 
Operating lease liabilities
 
18,285  
19,922 
Capitalized research and development
 
6,824  
14,800 
Other items
 
1,023  
745 
Tax credits
 
950  
1,582 
Total gross deferred tax assets
 
38,883  
50,599 
Less valuation allowances (2)
 
(4,374)  
(4,811) 
Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances
 
34,509  
45,788 
Deferred tax liabilities:

Depreciation and amortization
 
(9,039)  
(12,454) 
Operating lease assets
 
(17,140)  
(18,648) 
Other items
 
(817)  
(1,489) 
Net deferred tax assets (liabilities), net of valuation allowances
$ 
7,513 $ 
13,197

___________________
(1) Deferred tax assets are presented after tax effects and net of tax contingencies.
(2) Relates primarily to deferred tax assets that would only be realizable upon the generation of net income in certain foreign

We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal Revenue Service for the calendar year 2016 
and thereafter. These examinations may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or our net 
operating losses with respect to years under examination as well as subsequent periods.

We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. We allocate to segment 
results the operating expenses “Fulfillment,” “Technology and infrastructure,” “Sales and marketing,” and “General and 
administrative” based on usage, which is generally reflected in the segment in which the costs are incurred. The majority of 
technology costs recorded in “Technology and infrastructure” are incurred in the U.S. and are included in our North America 
and AWS segments. The majority of infrastructure costs recorded in “Technology and infrastructure” are allocated to the AWS 
segment based on usage. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reportable segments. Our chief operating 
decision maker (“CODM”) regularly reviews consolidated net sales, consolidated operating expenses, and consolidated 
operating income (loss) by segment. Amounts included in consolidated operating expenses include “Cost of sales,” 
“Fulfillment,” “Technology and infrastructure,” “Sales and marketing,” “General and administrative,” and “Other operating 
expense (income), net.” Our CODM manages our business by reviewing annual forecasts and consolidated results by segment 
on a quarterly basis.

Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income (loss) is as follows (in millions):

Net sales
$ 
279,833 $ 
315,880 $ 
352,828 
Operating expenses
 
272,562  
318,727  
337,951 
Operating income (loss)
$ 
7,271 $ 
(2,847) $ 
14,877 
International

Net sales
$ 
127,787 $ 
118,007 $ 
131,200 
Operating expenses
 
128,711  
125,753  
133,856 
Operating loss
$ 
(924) $ 
(7,746) $ 
(2,656) 
AWS

Net sales
$ 
62,202 $ 
80,096 $ 
90,757 
Operating expenses
 
43,670  
57,255  
66,126 
Operating income
$ 
18,532 $ 
22,841 $ 
24,631 
Consolidated

Net sales
$ 
469,822 $ 
513,983 $ 
574,785 
Operating expenses
 
444,943  
501,735  
537,933 
Operating income
 
24,879  
12,248  
36,852 
Total non-operating income (expense)
 
13,272  
(18,184)  
705 
Benefit (provision) for income taxes
 
(4,791)  
3,217  
(7,120) 
Equity-method investment activity, net of tax
 
4  
(3)  
(12) 
Net income (loss)
$ 
33,364 $ 
(2,722) $ 
30,425

___________________
(1) Includes product sales and digital media content where we record revenue gross. We leverage our retail infrastructure to

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined 
in Rule 13a-15(f) of the 1934 Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as 
of December 31, 2023 based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the 
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As a result of this assessment, management concluded 
that, as of December 31, 2023, our internal control over financial reporting was effective in providing reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles. Ernst & Young has independently assessed the effectiveness of our internal 
control over financial reporting and its report is included below.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2023 that 
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable 
assurance of achieving their objectives as specified above. Management does not expect, however, that our disclosure controls 
and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. Any control system, no 
matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, 
assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements 
due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been 
detected.

Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

We have audited Amazon.com, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023, based on criteria 
established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Amazon.com, Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all 
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United 
States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, the related consolidated 
statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the 
period ended December 31, 2023 and the related notes and our report dated February 1, 2024 expressed an unqualified opinion 
thereon.

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its 
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report 
on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control 
over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be 
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and 
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and 
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was 
maintained in all material respects.

Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a 
material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed 
risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides 
a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures 
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the 
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. 
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2023

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2022 and 2023

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for each of the three years ended December 31, 2023

101
The following financial statements from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2023, formatted in Inline XBRL: (i) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (ii) Consolidated 
Statements of Operations, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss), (iv) Consolidated 
Balance Sheets, (v) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity, and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements, tagged as blocks of text and including detailed tags.

